
## Class : spermathecum

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000994
 * *Label* = spermathecum
 * *Definition* = an organ of the female reproductive tract in insects, some molluscs, oligochaeta worms and certain other invertebrates and vertebrates.[1] Its purpose is to receive and store sperm from the male, and can sometimes be the site of fertilization when the oocytes are ready.[2] Some species have multiple spermathecae, as seen in earthworms, where four pairs of spermathecae are present. One pair in 6,7,8 and 9 segments. They receive and store the spermatozoa of another earthworm during copulation.[3] They are lined with epithelium and are variable in shape; some are thin, heavily coiled tubes, others are vague outpocketings from the main reproductive tract. It is one of the many variations in sexual reproduction[WP]. an accordion-like tube that contains sperm and is the site of oocyte fertilization.

## Synonyms

 * receptaculum seminis
 * seminal receptacle
 * spermatheca
 * spermathecae

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [organ](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0000062.md)
 * [reproductive structure](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005156.md)
 * [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [gonad](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0000991.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = an organ of the female reproductive tract in insects, some molluscs, oligochaeta worms and certain other invertebrates and vertebrates.[1] Its purpose is to receive and store sperm from the male, and can sometimes be the site of fertilization when the oocytes are ready.[2] Some species have multiple spermathecae, as seen in earthworms, where four pairs of spermathecae are present. One pair in 6,7,8 and 9 segments. They receive and store the spermatozoa of another earthworm during copulation.[3] They are lined with epithelium and are variable in shape; some are thin, heavily coiled tubes, others are vague outpocketings from the main reproductive tract. It is one of the many variations in sexual reproduction[WP]. an accordion-like tube that contains sperm and is the site of oocyte fertilization.
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = receptaculum seminis
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = seminal receptacle
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = spermatheca
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = spermathecae
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = spermathecum

## Usage

 * -
 * [cephalopod sperm receptacle](../../CEPH/17/CEPH_0001017.md) SubClassOf [spermathecum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_0000994.md)
 * [cephalopod spermathecum](../../CEPH/36/CEPH_0000236.md) SubClassOf [spermathecum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_0000994.md)
 * [spermathecum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_0000994.md) SubClassOf [organ](../../UBERON/62/UBERON_0000062.md)
 * [spermathecum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_0000994.md) SubClassOf [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [gonad](../../UBERON/91/UBERON_0000991.md)
 * [spermathecum](../../UBERON/94/UBERON_0000994.md) SubClassOf [reproductive structure](../../UBERON/56/UBERON_0005156.md)

## External Comments

