
## Class : biological_process

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GO_0008150
 * *Label* = biological_process
 * *Definition* = Any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells, tissues, organs, and organisms. A process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end.
 * *Definition* = Any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells, tissues, organs, and organisms. A process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:go_curators, [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = GOC:isa_complete ]

## Synonyms

 * biological process
 * physiological process
 * biological process unknown

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [processual entity](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0000000.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms

 * DisjointClasses(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GO_0005575> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GO_0008150>)

## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells, tissues, organs, and organisms. A process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end.
 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells, tissues, organs, and organisms. A process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end.
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = biological process
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = physiological process
 * *[has_narrow_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasNarrowSynonym.md)* = biological process unknown
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = biological_process

## Usage

 * -
 * DisjointClasses(<http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GO_0005575> <http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/GO_0008150>)
 * [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md) SubClassOf [processual entity](../../UBERON/00/UBERON_0000000.md)
 * [bioluminescence](../../GO/18/GO_0008218.md) SubClassOf [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md)
 * [cellular process](../../GO/87/GO_0009987.md) SubClassOf [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md)
 * [locomotion](../../GO/11/GO_0040011.md) SubClassOf [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md)
 * [metabolic process](../../GO/52/GO_0008152.md) SubClassOf [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md)
 * [response to stimulus](../../GO/96/GO_0050896.md) SubClassOf [biological_process](../../GO/50/GO_0008150.md)

## External Comments

