
## Class : ganglion

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0000045
 * *Label* = ganglion
 * *Definition* = A biological tissue mass, most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies. [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = Wikipedia:Ganglion ]
 * *Comment* = TODO - check vert vs invert. Other species: Any of a number of aggregations of neurons, glial cells and their processes, surrounded by a glial cell and connective tissue sheath (plural: ganglia). // Subdivision of neural tree (organ) which primarily consists of cell bodies of neurons located outside the neuraxis (brain and spinal cord); together with a nucleus and its associated nerve, it constitutes a neural tree (organ). Examples: spinal ganglion, trigeminal ganglion, superior cervical ganglion, celiac ganglion, inferior hypogastric (pelvic) ganglion. // a cluster of nerve cells and associated glial cells (nuclear location) // Portion of tissue that contains cell bodies of neurons and is located outside the central nervous system. // Structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies. (Source: BioGlossary, www.Biology-Text.com). TODO: add epithelial capsule to definition? Always true?

## Synonyms

 * ganglia
 * neural ganglion [ [database_cross_reference](../../ef/oboInOwl#hasDbXref.md) = BTO:0000497 ]

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [neural tissue](../../UBERON/14/UBERON_0003714.md)
 * [part_of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [nervous system](../../UBERON/16/UBERON_0001016.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations


## Usage


## External Comments

