
## Class : esophagus

 * *IRI* = http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/UBERON_0001043
 * *Label* = esophagus
 * *Definition* = Tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach. In mammals, the oesophagus connects the buccal cavity with the stomach. The stratified squamous non-keratinised epithelium lining the buccal cavity is continued through the pharynx down into the oesophagus. The lowest part of the oesophagus (ca. 2 cm) is lined with gastric mucosa and covered by peritoneum. The main body of the oesophagus is lined with small, simple mucous glands. Each gland opens into the lumen by a long duct which pierces the muscularis mucosae (Wilson and Washington, 1989). A sphincter is situated at the point where the oesophagus enters the stomach to prevent gastro-oesophageal reflux, i.e. to prevent acidic gastric contents from reaching stratified epithelia of the oesophagus, where they can cause inflammation and irritation (Wilson and Washington, 1989; Brown et al., 1993).

## Synonyms

 * gullet
 * oesophagus
 * œsophagus

## Cross-references


## Subsets


## Superclasses

 * [subdivision of digestive tract](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004921.md)
 * [thoracic cavity organ](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0005178.md)
 * [digestive system organ](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0013765.md)
 * [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [developing esophageal region](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0009143.md)

## Equivalencies


## Other Logical Axioms


## Other Annotations

 * *[definition](../../IAO/15/IAO_0000115.md)* = Tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach. In mammals, the oesophagus connects the buccal cavity with the stomach. The stratified squamous non-keratinised epithelium lining the buccal cavity is continued through the pharynx down into the oesophagus. The lowest part of the oesophagus (ca. 2 cm) is lined with gastric mucosa and covered by peritoneum. The main body of the oesophagus is lined with small, simple mucous glands. Each gland opens into the lumen by a long duct which pierces the muscularis mucosae (Wilson and Washington, 1989). A sphincter is situated at the point where the oesophagus enters the stomach to prevent gastro-oesophageal reflux, i.e. to prevent acidic gastric contents from reaching stratified epithelia of the oesophagus, where they can cause inflammation and irritation (Wilson and Washington, 1989; Brown et al., 1993).
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = gullet
 * *[has_exact_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasExactSynonym.md)* = oesophagus
 * *[has_related_synonym](../../ym/oboInOwl#hasRelatedSynonym.md)* = œsophagus
 * *[rdf-schema#label](../../el/rdf-schema#label.md)* = esophagus

## Usage

 * -
 * [brachial lobe of brain](../../CEPH/30/CEPH_0000030.md) SubClassOf [ventral_to](../../ceph#ventral/to/ceph#ventral_to.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [cephalic cartilage](../../CEPH/56/CEPH_0000056.md) SubClassOf [surrounds](../../ds/ceph#surrounds.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [crop](../../CEPH/78/CEPH_0000078.md) SubClassOf [continuous_with](../../ceph#continuous/th/ceph#continuous_with.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [epithelium of esophagus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001976.md) == [epithelium](../../UBERON/83/UBERON_0000483.md) and [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [epithelium of esophagus](../../UBERON/76/UBERON_0001976.md) SubClassOf [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [esophagus mucosa](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0002469.md) == [mucosa](../../UBERON/44/UBERON_0000344.md) and [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [esophagus mucosa](../../UBERON/69/UBERON_0002469.md) SubClassOf [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [esophagus muscle](../../UBERON/32/UBERON_0003832.md) == [muscle organ](../../UBERON/30/UBERON_0001630.md) and [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [esophagus muscle](../../UBERON/32/UBERON_0003832.md) SubClassOf [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md) SubClassOf [develops from](../../RO/02/RO_0002202.md) some [developing esophageal region](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0009143.md)
 * [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md) SubClassOf [digestive system organ](../../UBERON/65/UBERON_0013765.md)
 * [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md) SubClassOf [subdivision of digestive tract](../../UBERON/21/UBERON_0004921.md)
 * [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md) SubClassOf [thoracic cavity organ](../../UBERON/78/UBERON_0005178.md)
 * [superior buccal lobes](../../CEPH/52/CEPH_0000252.md) SubClassOf [continuous_with](../../ceph#continuous/th/ceph#continuous_with.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [suprabrachial commissure](../../CEPH/54/CEPH_0000254.md) SubClassOf [dorsal_to](../../ceph#dorsal/to/ceph#dorsal_to.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [wall of esophagus](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0001096.md) == [anatomical wall](../../UBERON/60/UBERON_0000060.md) and [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)
 * [wall of esophagus](../../UBERON/96/UBERON_0001096.md) SubClassOf [part of](../../BFO/50/BFO_0000050.md) some [esophagus](../../UBERON/43/UBERON_0001043.md)

## External Comments

